at the moment i just feel like i have no
plan
in the words of phoebe buffet from
friends i don't even have a plan
[Music]
hey everybody so today i thought i would
sit down and make a
study plan because i need to prepare
for my upcoming exams in april and at
the moment i just feel
completely unprepared i have no idea how
i'm going to set out my revision
i don't even know what content i've
still got left to cover i'm completely
a disorganized mess and i'm slightly
panicking about exams and i feel like
the best way to combat that panic is
just sit down
make a plan and think clearly break it
down into
manageable chunks and hopefully it will
all go
swimmingly for those of you who don't
know i am preparing for two
actuarial exams they are set by the
institute and faculty of actuaries
the first one is cs1 which is actuarial
statistics
and the second one is cb1 which is
business finance
i've been studying content for these
exams since october november time last
year but alongside this i have also been
working
a job and i will work four days a week
and take one day study per week on
average
it has been a little bit of a juggling
act it has taken some getting used to
like i'm working and studying at the
same time who signs themselves
up for this sort of stuff i know it's
going to get really busy as exams
approach as well
and i'm not going to be able to cram as
much as i usually would be able to
because while my exams are happening
during my exam season i'm going to have
to be doing my client work as well
yeah i am just going to open up my
laptop because
i always make my plans in a spreadsheet
i think the way i'm going to do it is
just
list all of the days
and make myself a little mini study
timetable
and of course we're going to color code
it because that's the most fun part
to be honest with you guys though i
haven't really planned my approach in
advance
for making a study plan although it does
seem a bit excessive to plan how you're
going to make a plan so maybe that's
acceptable if anyone has tips for making
a study plan and methods you absolutely
swear by
drop them in the comments section below
i'm sure we would all appreciate hearing
them
what's the date today that's the
question the 20th oh the exam
entry deadline was yesterday now i'm
getting paranoid that i didn't sign up
but i know i did sign up because i got a
confirmation email and why would i get a
confirmation email if i didn't register
but you know that paranoia you get when
you see a deadline has passed and you're
like did i do it did i do it but
i know i did it i know i signed up let's
go ahead and start typing my dates into
my spreadsheet
i've also put times down the side
so that my days are broken down into 15
minute
chunks in each cell of the spreadsheet
not because i'm going to plan
in that much detail now but because i
know
near the exams when i'm actually
planning out my study days i will want
to break my day down
into hourly chunks or whatever and this
will be
set up all ready for me to do it but for
now we are literally just gonna
write in a topic that i'm gonna study on
a particular day rather than going into
too much detail
this is like a high level initial plan
you know
okay first things first let's put in my
exam
dates 21st of april
is cb 1
exam actually i should look up the time
i think i signed up for the earliest
time possible
for some reason because clearly i hate
myself and wanted to have to get up
early
8 30 a.m my exam starts that is
disgusting
i'm gonna have to add a half hour into
this spreadsheet because i only started
the days at nine o'clock here i'm gonna
put it in red
because exams are a bad thing
cs1 is split up into two papers so i
have the 15th
and the 16th one of them
is an exam where we have to use r and
the other
would normally be what they call the
written paper except
we're typing up our answers in microsoft
word so it's still technically
a online computerized exam next thing
i'm going to do
is block out all of the time i am
working
i'm going to make it gray because the
times i'm working are really quite
irrelevant
to this study plan
[Music]
okay so i think i've grayed out all of
the days that i
am going to be working although i'm now
going to go ahead
and figure out when bank holidays are
and when i focus time off for mock exams
and make adjustments to that oh wow my
cb1 exam
is on the birthday of the queen what a
way to celebrate the queen's birthday
now i need to write in mock exams
i just need to remind myself when i
booked time off for those
tuesday the 9th of march that is
quite soon i reckon i should make it red
again even though it's a mock it's still
an
exam thursday the 18th cb1
mock right so they're kind of the
immediate things that i want to be
working towards i'm just growing out the
time before
the days i'm working because there's no
way i'm getting up early to study
it just it won't happen i could plan for
it to happen and it just wouldn't happen
so let's be realistic
so now i have got all of the blank
cells to play with as time in which i
can
schedule study now what i'm doing is
going online
and getting up the syllabus of the exams
i'm taking so i can literally
get a list of all the topics that i need
to revise
and then distribute them evenly
throughout the days
[Music]
i've just realized that my ebook course
notes have a read aloud
option so theoretically i could just set
it off
reading aloud while i sleep at night
that's supposed to make things
sink into your brain right
i have now got in two separate tabs a
list of
all the topics i need to revise
for cb1 and cs1
i am first of all gonna divide my days
up into stats and business work
it should probably be roughly two-thirds
cs1 and one-third
cb one although to be fair i'm actually
gonna make it half and half because i've
covered all of my stats stuff and i have
not covered all of my
business stuff um okay let's just use a
color for each of them so yellow can be
stats
[Music]
do
okey-dokey it's now dark outside and
i've been spending longer on this plan
than i thought i would
i'm finding it harder to plan out
my strategy for these exams because
they're completely new to me i've never
sat
actuarial exams before and their past
fail you know it doesn't matter if i get
or 80 or 60 as long as it's past
the pass mark fine i just need to pass
so i don't want to go overkill you know
but equally i don't want to slack off
and not pass you know i'd rather
study more and get a really high grade
unnecessarily
than study not quite enough because i
thought i was being clever
and then failed by like one percent that
would be really upsetting just have no
idea whether i'm going overkill or not
where i'm up to is i have
been color coding my timetable
purple is c
b1 yellow is cs1
red is exams or mocks
green is freedom so i'm pretty happy
with like my last run-up to exams i've
basically got a few days of just
doing past papers like a maniac i have
then got all these other days to work
with
blue is time off and i don't know
whether i'm taking enough days off
or not or too many do you know what i'm
gonna start just trying to plug in
the different topics that i need to
revise
into these blocks of time and see where
i get to with that and see if i think
it's
[Music]
reasonable
i think i've got that somehow i just you
know what i stopped complaining
and panicking about how i was gonna fit
it in and worrying that i was gonna get
the balance wrong
and just got going on making a timetable
it's just a starting point
i can change it as i go along if i feel
like i've been too ambitious or if i'm
getting through things quicker than i
expected this is not set in stone
but i just feel so much better because i
feel like i have
a starting point you know i'm not
completely plunging into unknown and
blindly hoping that i get everything
done in time
theoretically if i stick to this
timetable
i will be ready for my exams
and pass them and that's what we want
i'll screen record
in a second my laptop is just being a
bit slow
but while we wait for it i would
actually be really interested to know
what the timing is of all your exams
this year
if you're sitting exams anyway comment
below
when they are like what month they're in
i'm sure the timing of exams must
vary a lot between countries
and it also varies between kind of what
stage of schooling you're in right
like i've never had exams in april
before
they were always may time when i was
at school and then june time when i was
at uni
i actually think i'm gonna prefer having
them in april though because
i can have more fun when it's sunny in
june rather than just revising okay so
here is my
study plan spring 2021
next tuesday we've got a tutorial then i
want to practice typing
answers for cs1 because so far i've
pretty much been answering all of my
questions
using pen and paper and the actual exam
is in microsoft word and
i need to practice using equation editor
and getting fast at that
it's not going to be fun i'm still a bit
bitter about the fact i have to do my
exam in microsoft word
but me sitting here being cross about it
is not going to make me
do well in the exam i just need to suck
it up and get practicing
then i want to use the last part of my
study day next week to study
some business stuff then i've decided
that
i'm gonna do one evening's study next
week
i don't know how long i'll study for but
i want to practice
going through all of the r functions for
the various distributions that i'm going
to be using in the exam
for those of you who don't know by the
way r is a coding language
which we use for one of the stats exams
and i've also decided i'm going to do
some studying on
sunday next week it's not that bad i'm
still taking all of saturday off
i just want to get my final statistics
assignment done
and that assignment should cover
generalized linear models bayesian
statistics credibility theory
empirical based credibility theory i
know glms i know
beijing stats i don't have any clue
about these credibility theory things
but hopefully
my tutorial would enlighten me on those
and enable me to do the assignments
thursday is going to be my default study
day going forwards i might have to move
it around a bit you have to be kind of
flexible when fitting around client work
but i'll always take at least one study
day a week
on average i've decided to do one
evening's
study a week going forwards as well
so i've decided to do some cb1
flashcards the week after next
on this thursday study day i've
literally just listed
a few business finance topics that i
want to
cover then the following sunday i'm
doing some
mock preparation because my cs1 mocks
are on
the tuesday i've been quite vague with
that because i think on the day itself
i'm gonna know
what areas i'm less confident on and
want to practice
again this is all me just finishing off
the business finance topics that i
haven't
covered yet so i literally haven't read
over the notes yet for growth and
restructuring and cost of capital and
capital structure but hopefully i'll
pick it up
quickly we'd have to hope so then i've
got another evening study
mock prep actually doing the mock then i
want to reflect on my cs1 mock i set
this time aside because i know i'll get
a marked copy back
and it always takes a little while to
sit down and figure out why you went
wrong on questions
i think it's quite a valuable exercise
to read the marcus feedback
once my mocks are done i am literally
just going into
proper revision mode i've set aside
different topics for different
days i'm gonna be doing past papers full
time from 11th of april onwards
but before that i could do with making
time for at least
two past papers a week i reckon
hopefully i'll be able to fit past
papers around
all of these different revision topics
and obviously when i'm revising these
topics i'm going to be doing
practice past paper questions on those
topics anyway oh and the other thing
is that i am putting aside 15 minutes
every day
to practice touch typing because my cb1
exam
is obviously in microsoft word and
the nature of the questions is that a
lot of them are
long answer writing paragraphs of text
and
i need to be able to communicate what's
in my head onto my screen
as fast as possible and i know that my
typing speed is definitely a weak point
for me at the moment
i did sciences at uni so i never wrote
many
essays on my computer i'm just way more
comfortable
writing handwritten answers with pen and
paper and i don't have that option this
time
so i am really really making a push to
increase my typing speed in time for the
exam and i'm doing that by just
practicing little and
often and yeah i think that rounds up my
timetable
thank you for keeping me company while i
made it we'll see how it goes
all i can say is i just feel a lot more
calm now
planning is a great way to de-stress
honestly would recommend
also i'm definitely planning on filming
the lead up to my exams and filming exam
season itself this year so
subscribe to watch all of that and give
the video a like if you enjoyed it
hit the notification bell if you want to
get a notification
every time i upload and also follow my
instagram for more content from me
i'll see you guys soon with another
[Music]
video
you